Solved data compatibility issues with dashboard (#17)
covid-19-impact-lab/utilities: docs/source/how_to_add_a_component.rst

How to Add a Component

> ======================

Reviewer: I think the upper part of this documentation would be confusing to someone not familiar with the code and "dashboard terminology". The lower part where you go over the steps is great! :+1: 

I would suggest the following to make things clearer:

1. Define what a component is.
2. Make sure you always use the same terms / words to refer to the same steps and constructs.
3. Start with a short description of the steps and main modules (`from_data_to_dashboard.py` and `run_dashboard.py`).
4. Maybe take the simplest of our present components and show for each step what would be added to add the component as a whole (might be too time consuming to do this).

Intro
-----

To integrate a new component into the dashboard you need to add a folder (e.g.
`maps`) in `utilities/dashboard/components`. The code that generates your component
should be divided into three modules:

- plotting module (e.g. `mapplot.py`), containing functions that process
  a relatively "raw" dataset and returns the statistics to be displayed in the

>   plot, and functions that generate the component's plot.

Reviewer: Maybe explain here also what is **not** in the plotting module. Although, this would probably become more self-apparent if this was not the first module you described.

- `create_data.py`, containing functions that process the data (which may include
  metadata, such as descriptive text) needed to create your component and returns

>   a dictionary of aggregate data.

Reviewer: I think it could be confusing to describe the plotting module first. I would start chronologically, i.e. with `create_data.py`

Author: I made clearer why I describe the plotting module first (it contains core functions, which are called by the other two modules, and it has to be developed first)

- `create_component.py`, containing functions that generate your component, which
  may be a combination of plot and descriptive text, and possibly add callbacks
  to make it interactive. Note that in the current dashboard layout
  each component is displayed in a separate bokeh Tab.

When you run the dashboard, `from_data_to_dashboard.py` will process the raw data
and output the resulting dictionaries to a directory you specify.
Note that the current version of the dashboard uses data from different raw datasets,
which result in different dictionaries.
`run_dashboard.py` will then use those dictionaries as inputs and assemble the
components to create the dashboard.

Therefore, to integrate your component in the existing code, you need to:

  - **Update the data-processing step**, such that `from_data_to_dashboard.py`
    additionally returns the dictionary you need to generate your component,
  - **Update the dashboard-building step**, such that your component is displayed

>     together with the already existing Tabs.

Reviewer: I would move this to the (near) top of the module, below explaining the two steps that exist for the dashboard. That way the developer gets a bird's eye view of what exists and what has to be adjusted before you talk about the code directory and three modules that have to be created.

The two sections below contain more specific information on these two steps.

> The two overarching rules are: Make sure that your changes do not affect the
> already existing dashboard's components, and try to make your component as
> independent as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two overarching rules are: 
1. Make sure that your changes do not affect the already existing dashboard's components
2. Try to make your component as independent as possible.
```

Data-processing
---------------

The result of this step will be a dictionary of aggregate data, to be passed

> to the functions that actually generate your component.

Reviewer: "the functions that actually generate your component". Maybe you can be more specific here or give examples from the other components?

Author: I rewrote this section

Reviewer: Very well done. Much more accessible for someone coming newly to the code! :+1:
